
list of all the schools:
School of Advanced Science (SAS)
School of Social Sciences and Languages (SSL)
School of Computer Science and Engineering (SCOPE)
School of Electrical Engineering (SELECT)
School of Electronics Engineering (SENSE)
School of Mechanical Engineering (SMEC)
School of Civil Engineering (SCE)
VIT Fashion Institute of Technology (VFIT)
VIT School of Law (VITSOL)
VIT Business School (VITBS)
Admissions Overview AY 2025 – 26 Info. Brochures B.Tech. M.Tech. (2 Yr) M.C.A. Research (Ph.D. Jan 2026 Session) B.Sc. Computer Science B.Sc. Fashion Design B.Sc. Economics (Hons.) B.Com. (Hons.) B.B.A. (Hons.) B.Tech. Fashion Technology Integrated M.Tech. Integrated M.Sc. M.B.A. M.Sc. LL.M. Undergraduate Postgraduate Research Admission International Admissions STARS STSS
Overview
AY 2025 – 26 Info. Brochures B.Tech. M.Tech. (2 Yr) M.C.A. Research (Ph.D. Jan 2026 Session) B.Sc. Computer Science B.Sc. Fashion Design B.Sc. Economics (Hons.) B.Com. (Hons.) B.B.A. (Hons.) B.Tech. Fashion Technology Integrated M.Tech. Integrated M.Sc. M.B.A. M.Sc. LL.M.
B.Tech.
M.Tech. (2 Yr)
M.C.A.
Research (Ph.D. Jan 2026 Session)
B.Sc. Computer Science
B.Sc. Fashion Design
B.Sc. Economics (Hons.)
B.Com. (Hons.)
B.B.A. (Hons.)
B.Tech. Fashion Technology
Integrated M.Tech.
Integrated M.Sc.
M.B.A.
M.Sc.
LL.M.
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Research Admission
International Admissions


About VIT
VIT was established with the aim of providing quality higher education on par with international standards. It persistently seeks and adopts innovative methods to improve the quality of higher education on a consistent basis.The campus has a cosmopolitan atmosphere with students from all corners of the globe. Experienced and learned teachers are strongly encouraged to nurture the students. The global standards set at VIT in the field of teaching and research spur us on in our relentless pursuit of excellence. In fact, it has become a way of life for us. The highly motivated youngsters on the campus are a constant source of pride. Our Memoranda of Understanding with various international universities are our major strength. They provide for an exchange of students and faculty and encourage joint research projects for the mutual benefit of these universities. Many of our students, who pursue their research projects in foreign universities, bring high quality to their work and esteem to India and have done us proud. With steady steps, we continue our march forward. We look forward to meeting you here at VIT.
About VIT Chennai
VIT Chennai was established in 2010 and has since become a beacon of excellence in higher education. Spearheaded by Vice President Dr. G. V. Selvam, a pioneering visionary who laid the foundation of VIT Chennai, he is an insightful architect of its evergreen campus and an ingenious leader whose comprehensive vision and mission have shaped its growth. Under his guidance, VIT Chennai has rapidly evolved into a hub of innovation and academic distinction. The leadership team, including Vice Chancellor Dr. V. S. Kanchana Bhaaskaran, Pro Vice Chancellor Dr. T. Thyagarajan and Additional Registrar Dr. P. K. Manoharan, drives its mission of delivering transformative education and impactful research. Strategically located in the capital city of Tamil Nadu, VIT Chennai is a globally engaged, competitive, and research-enriched institution. It proactively addresses industrial, social, economic, and environmental challenges, fostering application-based learning that produces industry-ready professionals.
Known for its cosmopolitan atmosphere, VIT Chennai attracts students from across the globe, fostering a vibrant and multicultural community. Committed to maximizing industrial connectivity and establishing Centers of Excellence in cutting-edge research areas, VIT Chennai enriches technological and managerial human capital through a collaborative and inclusive academic environment. It serves as a platform for intellectual exchange, encouraging the convergence of diverse ideas to drive innovation and learning. Dedicated to societal and industrial advancement, VIT Chennai leverages its resources to benefit the community, supports national knowledge-building initiatives, and fosters international collaborations for mutual progress in research and education. With a clear vision and an unwavering mission, VIT Chennai continues to redefine the landscape of higher education in India and beyond.
History of VIT
It was established under Section 3 of the University Grants Commission (UGC) Act, 1956, and was founded in 1984 as a self-financing institution called the Vellore Engineering College. The Union Ministry of Human Resources Development conferred University status on Vellore Engineering College in 2001. The University is headed by its founder and Chancellor, Dr. G. Viswanathan, a former Parliamentarian and Minister in the Tamil Nadu Government. In recognition of his service to India in offering world class education, he was conferred an honorary doctorate by the West Virginia University, USA. VIT Chennai was established in 2010. Mr. Sankar Viswanathan, Dr. Sekar Viswanathan and Dr. G.V. Selvam are the Vice-Presidents; Dr. V. S. Kanchana Bhaaskaran is the Vice-Chancellor and Dr. Thyagarajan T is the Pro-Vice Chancellor.
Our Vision
Transforming life through excellence in education and research.
Our Mission
World class Education: Excellence in education, grounded in ethics and critical thinking, for improvement of life.
Cutting edge Research: An innovation ecosystem to extend knowledge and solve critical problems.
Impactful People: Happy, accountable, caring and effective workforce and students.
Rewarding Co-creations: Active collaboration with national & international industries & universities for productivity and economic development.
Service to Society: Service to the region and world through knowledge and compassion.
Core Values
Student focus
Strong ethics
Striving for excellence
Social development
Respect for all
Quick Facts
NAAC has re-accredited VIT with an ‘A++’ grade.
Land Area : 192.13 Acres
VIT Chennai has around 13000 students.
Students from various countries as well as from every state in India
508 faculty and 137 staff members are in VIT Chennai
VIT has been accredited by TCS, Wipro and Cognizant for academic collaboration and placements.
Entered the Limca Book of Records for Campus Recruitment.
Parents
Guest House
Parents Login
Programmes Offered
Hotels Near VIT Chennai
Visitors
Careers@VITCC
Contact Us
Blog
Sitemap
VITians
VIT Intranet
VIT Webmail
VIT Gmail
Student Login – VTOP
Student Login Creation
Students Code of Conduct
COMMITTEESS @ VIT
Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC)
Internal Complaints Committee
Grievance Redressal Committee
Students Grievance Redressal Committee
Code of Conduct Monitoring Committee
Anti-Discrimination Committee
Anti-Ragging Committee
VIT Innovation and Startup Policy
Committee for Sustainability Initiatives
Committee for ensuring Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity
VIT Chennai Ombudsman
BIS Corner
CONTACT
admin.chennai@vit.ac.in +91 44 3993 1555 Vellore Institute of Technology University, Vandalur Kelambakkam Road, Keelakotaiyur, Chennai, Tamil Nadu – 600 127
Home
About Us Overview VIT Milestones Leadership Governance Administrative Offices Infrastructure Sustainability VIT News Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) Ranking & Accreditation MHRD/UGC/AICTE Careers Privacy Policy
Overview
VIT Milestones
Leadership
Governance
Administrative Offices
Infrastructure
Sustainability
VIT News
Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC)
Ranking & Accreditation
MHRD/UGC/AICTE
Careers
Privacy Policy
Academics VIT Institutional Development Plan (As per NEP 2020 and UGC guidelines) Academic Regulations Academic Calendar FFCS Programmes Offered Schools School of Advanced Science (SAS) School of Social Sciences and Languages (SSL) School of Computer Science and Engineering (SCOPE) School of Electrical Engineering (SELECT) School of Electronics Engineering (SENSE) School of Mechanical Engineering (SMEC) School of Civil Engineering (SCE) VIT Fashion Institute of Technology (VFIT) VIT School of Law (VITSOL) VIT Business School (VITBS) Examinations Controller of Examinations Transcripts e-sanad Certificate Verification for Registered Agencies International Relations Feedback Academics Centers Library Library Central Library – Resources Special Features E – Resources Rules and Regulations WebOPAC NPTEL NDLI DELNET (DEVELOPING LIBRARY NETWORK) SWAYAM PRABHA – DTH CHANNEL FOR EDUCATION The National Archives of India (NAI)
VIT Institutional Development Plan (As per NEP 2020 and UGC guidelines)
