
About the School of Advanced Sciences (SAS)
About School of Advanced Science (SAS)
The School of Advanced Sciences comprises three departments, namely, Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. The school offers the following programmes: M. Sc. Data Science, M.Sc. Physics and M.Sc. Chemistry.  The school offers courses catering to B.Tech, M.Tech, MCA, Business, Fashion design and Law programmes. The curriculum is developed on par with international standards, keeping in mind the current industrial needs.  It is supported by state-of-the-art laboratories to provide hands-on experience on theoretical concepts discussed in the classroom. The unique combination of courses related to pure and applied sciences, offered by the school is intended to impart the necessary scientific knowledge to the future scientists and engineers. The faculty are engaged in active research in frontier areas.
QS RANKING OF THE SCHOOL OF ADVANCED SCIENCES
PROGRAMMES OFFERED BY THE SCHOOL OF ADVANCED SCIENCES
Department of Physics
Department of Mathematics
Department of Chemistry
FACULTY EXCELLENCE
TOP 2 % SCIENTISTS OF THE SCHOOL OF ADVANCED SCIENCES
ADJUNCT PROFESSORS
HIGH IMPACT FACTOR (IF) PUBLICATONS:
MHRD-SPARC ( Scheme for Promotion of Academic and Research Collaboration)
International collaborative project: Scheme for Promotion of Academic and Research Collaboration (SPARC) with University of Roma.
Principal investigators:
Professor Atanu Dutta, Division of Physics, School of Advanced Sciences, VIT Chennai with University of Roma.
OTHER ACTIVITIES
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES
SCIVIT
SCI-VIT 2025 is a one-day offline Science Festival for school students,organised by the School of Advanced Sciences, VIT Chennai in order to promote science in young minds through the spirit of invention and innovation. Sir. C. V. Raman, Homi Jehangir Bhabha, Vikram Sarabhai, HarGobind Khorana, Satyendra Nath Bose, Srinivasa Ramanujan,Meghnad Saha and several others have made substantial contributions to modern science. This event is an opportunity to celebrate the contributions of Indian scientists and to nurture the interest and passion in Science among young innovative minds who are the beacons of future India.
PhyFEST
PhyFEST is a one day Physics festival conducted yearly by the Department of Physics, School of Advanced Sciences, VIT Chennai. This fun festival is intended towards B.Sc Physics students from different institutes who are in their second and third year of study. Fest involves various events that bring out the physics concepts as showcased by the students, in a competitive way. Students are also exposed to various research facilities available with our institute.
CHEMFEST
Chemistry festival at Vellore Institute of Technology Chennai is organized for the benefit of bachelor’s degree students in Chemistry. This festival aims to motivate and encourage students towards research for a sustainable future through various thrust areas in Chemistry. This event is an opportunity to celebrate the contributions of chemists to a sustainable environment and to nurture the interest and passion in chemical science among young innovative minds to develop a sustainable nation.
TESSERACT
Tesseract: A Dawn of Data Science was an event that was a celebration of innovation, collaboration, and the limitless potential of data science. The day left participants inspired, energised, and eager to explore the ever-evolving world of data. The day was a vibrant blend of learning, creativity, and camaraderie, leaving an indelible mark on everyone present. As the sun set on this memorable day, it marked not just the end of an event but the beginning of a new journey for the students of M.Sc. Data Science at VIT Chennai.
INDUSTRY CONCLAVE - TechSAS
RESEARCH SCHOLARS CONCLAVE
SAS CENTRAL FACILITY
POWDER XRD
Powder X-ray Diffraction – Rigaku SmartLab 3 X-ray Diffractometer
Discovery of crystalline substances acting as 3-D diffraction gratings for X-ray wavelengths by Max von Laue in 1912 X-Ray Diffraction is used to determine phase composition, quantitative phase analysis, unit cell lattice parameters, crystal structure, average crystallite size of particles, crystallite microstrain, texture, etc. Powder XRD can be done for Polycrystalline samples used for both bulk and thin film specimens SEM High Resolution Scanning Electron Microscope with Energy Dispersive X-ray Analysis Facility – Zeiss EVO10 HRSEM with LaB6 Possibility of both tungsten and LaB6 sources Spectral resolution of 3 nm at 30 kV and 8 nm at 3 kV Determination of size & shape of nanostructured materials with surface morphology down to 20 nm Compositional determination using Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis at individual location/areal distribution/interface for both conducting and non-conducting samples Powders, pellets, thick/thin films, layered samples
Discovery of crystalline substances acting as 3-D diffraction gratings for X-ray wavelengths by Max von Laue in 1912
X-Ray Diffraction is used to determine phase composition, quantitative phase analysis, unit cell lattice parameters, crystal structure, average crystallite size of particles, crystallite microstrain, texture, etc.
Powder XRD can be done for Polycrystalline samples used for both bulk and thin film specimens
SEM
High Resolution Scanning Electron Microscope with Energy Dispersive X-ray Analysis Facility – Zeiss EVO10 HRSEM with LaB6
Possibility of both tungsten and LaB6 sources
Spectral resolution of 3 nm at 30 kV and 8 nm at 3 kV
Determination of size & shape of nanostructured materials with surface morphology down to 20 nm
Compositional determination using Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis at individual location/areal distribution/interface for both conducting and non-conducting samples
Powders, pellets, thick/thin films, layered samples
HIGHLIGHTS
MOU’S
INDUSTRY CONSULTANCY PROJECTS
