School of Mechanical Engineering (SMEC)
School of Mechanical Engineering (SMEC)
Introduction
The School of Mechanical Engineering (SMEC) was established in 2010, completing a decade of imparting knowledge. SMEC is supported by all its stakeholders who constantly aim at reaching new milestones year in and year out. The school has scaled up its reputation through its service and persistence in its attempt. The sustained effort to enhance its service led to the accreditation of the school as the best mechanical engineering college in Chennai . The school aims to creating and shaping the new generation of mechanical engineers through their innovative teaching methods and practical knowledge.
VIT Best Mechanical Engineering College in Chennai
The faculty at SMEC has exceptional skills in training students and years of experience in the field. They hold the perfect blend of knowledge, industry experience and research skills. The school faculty is a team of highly qualified professionals with all of them having Ph.D. degrees from renowned universities. In line with the university’s mission, the faculty members sharpen the country’s best minds.
The school has always been at the forefront of encouraging research and development. The research groups at SMEC receives funding from several government agencies and private agencies such as DST, DRDO, MNRE, CSIR, CVRDE, CPDO, IE, AR & DB, CVRDE, BRNS, ISRO, UGC, NRB, AICTE, and Dassault Systemes La Foundation, etc., Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with various industry and research organizations and leading universities.
With the best infrastructural facilities, the students are provided with endless opportunities to work towards their dream and be busy introducing new inventions. The teaching methods are infused with new and modern technologies and aim at making students understand concepts better through visual display and representation.
VISION OF THE SCHOOL OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
To be a leader in imparting world-class education in Mechanical Engineering , with a vision to nurture scientists and technocrats of the highest caliber engaged in global sustainable development.
MISSION OF THE SCHOOL OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
M1: To create and maintain an environment fostering excellence in teaching & learning, research and innovation in Mechanical Engineering and allied disciplines.
M2: To equip students with the required knowledge and skills to engage seamlessly in higher education and employment sectors ensuring that societal demands are met.
Course Specialization offered at VIT
The syllabus is re-designed year after year to accommodate various changes in the industry. The school has established itself as the best mechanical engineering college in Chennai through its interdisciplinary approach and innovative teaching methods. The school offers three undergraduate and two postgraduate programs:
B. Tech. in Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech. in Mechatronics and Automation
B. Tech. Mechanical Engineering with specialization in Electric Vehicles
M. Tech. in CAD/CAM, and
M. Tech. in Mechatronics
Placement opportunities and Counselling
The school takes pride in its alumni network and celebrates its success and achievements. Graduating from the School of Mechanical Engineering of VIT Chennai which is the best mechanical engineering college in Chennai , enables the students being placed in the most reputed companies in the country. It tries to equip them for becoming masters in the field and enable them to apply to the best institutions around the globe .  The courses offered are deeply rooted in formulating the basics of mechanical engineering, allowing students to excel in any field they choose. They cater to all subject matter demands of students: aerospace, defence, manufacturing, energy, and automotive. The school is also accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET.
World of Opportunities for Mechanical Engineers
We are surrounded by machines, and mechanical engineers are the masterminds behind those machines. This industry is always on the lookout for creative and innovative graduates. Hence, graduating from the best mechanical engineering college in Chennai will promise you a bright future in the industry.
There are many job profiles available for one to choose from as their ideal pick after graduation. Some of them are listed below:
Aerospace Engineer – maintaining and manufacturing aircraft and airports
Maintenance Engineer – ensure smooth functioning of machines and equipment
Automotive Engineer – Research & Development and Design & Innovation in the automobile industry
Control & Instrumentation Engineer – Controlling and instrumenting machines involved in engineering; R&D, Designing, Installation, Management and Maintenance.
Nuclear Engineer – Handling the technicalities of nuclear power stations
Mechanical Engineer – Designing and Maintaining machines
Why VIT is the Best Mechanical Engineering College in Chennai
The student culture at VIT is extremely diverse and vibrant. There are various clubs and opportunities for students to display their talents and get involve themselves for the benefits of society. It is the perfect place for students to find their voice.
The infrastructure at the campus has seen immense growth and continues to grow in the coming years. The school is always a step ahead in adopting new technologies and teaching methods.
Practical training receives priority at VIT Chennai . The school finds regular highly crucial industry visits for students to gain practical exposure and knowledge about the industry.
Professors at SMEC are experts in their respective fields and are trained to teach the best minds. Their constant efforts in effortlessly explaining difficult concepts make VIT the best mechanical engineering college in Chennai.
For admission related queries contact us through admin.chennai@vit.ac.in or +91 44 3993 1555
Know More Introduction Programmes Faculty Faculty Information * Facilities Professional Activities Extention Activities Industrial Connectivity Guest Lectures Research Journal Publications Conference Publications Book Publications Projects Research Groups Research Guides and Topics Research Scholars Placement Details * News Letter Professional Bodies Patents Innovations in Teaching and Learning All Schools
