
The Office of International Relations
With over 300+ international MoUs across the globe, Vellore Institute of Technology has a strong international presence across the world. The International Relations of Vellore Institute of Technology with institutes and universities all over the world helps the students to explore diverse environments and various cultures across the globe. International Relations help the institute to connect students and faculty with peers across the entire planet. The international partner universities are spread in countries throughout the world – Europe, USA, Asia, Australia, Canada, Asia-Pacific, Middle East, Africa, and South America. The list of international partnering university is quite long and visit the below link to check them out! Partner Universities
VIT itself, provides education to students not only from India but from abroad as well. Evidently, VIT as an international institute can be sensed from the increase in the number of foreign students on campus to pursue their higher education.
The students get a chance to visit other international partner universities in their last semester under the Semester Abroad Programme (SAP) . VIT’s Semester Abroad programme aims to encourage students from all streams to pursue their final semester in one of the international partner universities abroad. The Office of International Relations organizes a roadshow to students in their pre-final year and all are invited to participate. The international program is pursued by both undergraduate and postgraduate students.
VIT also offers an International Transfer Programme (ITP) where the students can opt for studying at a partner university after completing their 2 years of their bachelor’s degree in VIT. The students can opt for International Transfer Programme in partner universities in the USA, UK, Sweden or Australia. This international program is offered to Engineering streams. Also, the International Relations of VIT brings in over 175+ faculties from foreign universities to take up teaching and researching assignments and tasks at VIT. International programs don’t end here. There are internships available all over the globe for the students to earn a stipend and get valuable work experience.
Why opt for International Programmes?
Increases the value of resume
Exposure to various scientists and researchers
Learning more about higher education opportunities available abroad
Uncovering the latest and new cutting edge and emerging technologies
Gives a broader perspective and better outlook in shaping a student as an individual.
International Relations would help in the considerable increase in the presence of foreign students and faculty on the campus. Such presence would help in a student-friendly, diverse environment with faculty experienced in many major fields. With the latest addition of the Institute of Eminence to VIT, there is an expected increase in International Relations with various universities around the world.
International Relations Contact
Dr. Subaji M
Director, Global Engagement, Office of International Relations Phone: +91-44-3993 1038 Email: chennai.dirge@vit.ac.in
Dr. Reena Monica P
Deputy Director, Office of International Relations Email : reenamonica@vit.ac.in
