
School of Electronics Engineering (SENSE)
Introduction
The School of Electronics Engineering (SENSE) was established in 2010, which aims to pursue technical prowess and progress. With every passing year, the school aims at unfolding new possibilities and making breakthroughs in the technological industry. As one of the premium schools housed within the institute, it wears the tag of being the best college for electronics engineering . This reputation has been built over years of achieving excellence in advancing knowledge through path-breaking methods of tutoring. The professors of the university work towards creating an environment of practical learning and aim to sharpen the future of our students.
Vision
To be a leader in imparting in-depth and futuristic knowledge of electronics engineering and allied domains that cater to the needs of industry, research, and society.
Mission
To create and maintain an environment of excellence in teaching, learning, and applied research in electronics engineering and associated disciplines to pioneer sustainable growth.
To equip students with the necessary knowledge and skills enabling them to be lifelong learners in solving real-life problems, thereby improving the quality of human life and values.
VIT – Best College for Electronics Engineering
Within VIT Chennai , SENSE has made a distinction by being at the forefront of creating ground-breaking thinkers, through quality education and resources. The students of the university are provided with top-notch facilities that open grounds for creative experimentation. The laboratories given below are equipped with advanced technology for limitless learning:
5G Use Cases Labs under the “100 5G Use Cases Labs Initiative” of Government of India
Anechoic Chamber
IoT Lab
Nanotechnology Lab
Optics Lab
Samsung – Student Ecosystem for Engineered Data (SEED) Lab
VLSI Design Lab
The research wing of SENSE encourages cutting-edge research across all fields of electronics by being an active focal point for research fundings and patents.
SENSE truly believes in removing all the barriers between students and knowledge acquisition. Hence, the school is staffed with stellar faculty who are in constant pursuit of creating competent professionals in the field. With their perseverance and dedication, the students are assured of getting a world-class education. The Industry -Academia forum of the school collaborates the research acumen with the industry. It ensures the students are introduced to the industry from the very beginning.
The Internet of Things (IoT) Committee consists of people working towards forming global standards for IoT technology. It has also been persistent with working groups of Telecom Engineering Centre, Government of India. In sync with the National Semiconductor Mission (NSM), the VLSI Design group focus on taping out low power and high performance chip. The AI Industry Forum provides budding engineers and entrepreneurs with a platform to interact with global leaders in Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning. This platform provides an ecosystem for contributors across Government, Academia, and Industry to further benefit and explore the potential of AI.
Opportunities that Electronics Engineering has to offer
Studying from the best college for electronics engineering opens doors for various opportunities. The scope of electronics engineering is far-reached; it can be linked with every field worldwide. A life without electronic gadgets is implausible. With the insight to digital technology, the potential of the electronics engineering sector is on an ever-high stand.
Various career opportunities help the students to create a secure future across various fields such as Automation Systems, Data Acquisition, Signal Processing, Embedded System, IoT, IC Design, and Telecommunication. Electronics engineering education opens up opportunities in design and manufacturing companies with job roles in research, design or development.
In a nutshell, the electronics engineering sector forms the vertebrae at all stages of development: planning, executing, and delivering the product. As an electronics engineering aspirant, students can choose which part of the process excites them the most. The training provided by SENSE makes it the best college for electronics engineering and equips students with all the skills required to excel in the industry.
Programmes offered at SENSE, VIT Chennai
Since its inception, the school has raised the bar and established new paragons with every passing year. It provides a beehive of opportunities and exposure to its students with the plethora of courses it offers, making it the best college for electronics engineering. The degree programmes offered in all levels of qualification are:
B. Tech. in Electronics and Communication Engineering
B. Tech. in Electronics and Computer Engineering
B. Tech. in Electronics Engineering (VLSI Design and Technology)
M. Tech. in Embedded Systems
M. Tech. in VLSI Design
Ph. D.
Placement opportunities and Career guidance
SENSE provides placements from top companies to its students. The following industry sectors welcome electronics engineering graduates: Wireless Communications and Signal Processing, Micro/Nanoelectronics, Lasers and Optics, Electronic Devices, Telecommunications, Nanotechnology, Robotics, Information Systems, Computer Software- Hardware Integration, Intelligent Systems, Control Systems, and other Advanced Technologies.
Some leading core companies that actively recruit graduates from SENSE are: ARM, Amazon Web Services, AMD, BSNL, Cadence, Microsoft, MTNL, Paypal, VMWare, Qualcomm, Reliance Communications, JP Morgan, Tata Telecom, Hutch, Bharti Telecom, Airtel, Nokia, CISCO, IBM, Intel, Agilent, Alcatel, AT&T, Ericsson, Honeywell, Bosch, National Instruments, IBM, Texas Instruments, HCL, Synopsys, Siemens, ST Microelectronics and Samsung.
For admission related queries contact us through admin.chennai@vit.ac.in or +91 44 3993 1555
Know More About School Programmes Faculty Facilities Achievements Professional Activities Workshop and Thons Guest Lectures Conferences FDP & VAP Extension Activities Industrial Connectivity MoUs Consultancy and Testing Industry Activities Students Interaction with Industry Research Journal Publications Conference Publications Book Publications Patents Funded Projects Research Group Research Scholars Research Forum Research Labs Academic Collaboration E – News Letter Professional Bodies All Schools
