
Students Welfare
Student Council of VIT Chennai
Student Council of VIT Chennai has representatives from each discipline and gender distribution. The Student Council is a representative structure that acts as a voice of students. It involves in the affairs of all Students’ related activities by partnering with the students, VIT administration and the parents. The Student council takes up issues of concern and debates to provide solutions that benefit the student community as well as VIT Chennai. It enables the students to take responsibility for activities on the campus and demonstrate their managerial capacity to bring success in all such actions. Such opportunities enable them to acquire communication, planning and organizational skills that will benefit throughout their life. Thus, the main role of VIT Chennai Students Council is to create a partnership among the students, parents and the University authorities to create a sense of ownership among the students.
Student Council Members
Roles of Students Council
Promote communication among the students, parents, faculty members and University authorities
Establish a conducive environment for the students’ educational and personal development
Represent the views of students on matters of general concern
The Students’ Welfare Office liaises with the Student Council regularly in planning and organizing students’ promotional activities. In undertaking activities during the academic year, the Students Council should:
Closely work with the faculty members, VIT authorities, and parents
Consult the students across discipline and year regularly
Involve as many students as possible in such activities as, cultural, technical, clubs and sports related activities, etc.
Contribute to the development of University policy related to students requirements, code of behavior, extracurricular activities
Students Welfare Office
Student Council work closely with the authorities at Students Welfare Office (SWO). The administration within Students Welfare Office include Assistant Directors (Health, Proctor-Proctee Actions, Clubs and Societies, Sports, and Events) and a Director. Major events, including technoVIT, Vibrance, University Day, Final Year Students Farewell, etc, are organized by the SWO in collaboration with the Students Council and other Students’ Representatives.
