
School of Computer Science and Engineering (SCOPE)
Introduction
The domain of engineering that has grown to be a major obliging field is Computer Science Engineering. Computer science engineering has taken a good course in embarking a strong place in the field of engineering. The School of Computer Science and Engineering was established in the year of 2010 in VIT. Ever since then, VIT has been producing many computer science engineers who meet the demands of IT firms to the best of their abilities. VIT Chennai is the best engineering college for computer science and has an excellent reputation for many years and still continues to withhold to date.
Vision
To be a world-renowned centre of education, research and service in computing and allied domains.
Mission
To offer computing education programs with the goal that the students become technically competent and develop lifelong learning skills.
To undertake path-breaking research that creates new computing technologies and solutions for industry and society at large.
To foster vibrant outreach programs for industry, research organizations, academia and society.
VIT – Best engineering college for computer science
Ever since the start of the Computer Science and Engineering department, VIT has been keenly involved in curriculum development and curating strategic teaching that will greatly benefit the students. It is indispensable to induce practical learning right from the beginning of the course, and VIT takes efforts to inculcate the same.
VIT offers nothing short of the best exposure for students from the infrastructure, lab setup, conducting resourceful symposiums and seminars. For someone willing to gain a holistic learning experience, VIT is the best place as it makes sure that the graduates walk out with a multitude of skills and learning.
Opportunities that Computer science engineering has to offer
Computer science engineers are employed in almost all domains. As technology develops faster than ever before, it is the need of the hour to generate skilled graduates who are well equipped with modern computing sciences and their principle designs. A degree in computer science engineering can give you a good place at IT firms and corporates. If you graduate from the best engineering college for computer science , with good skills, you can be employed at top firms with designations like software developer, web developer, computer system analyst, computer, data engineer, and much more. Students have a plethora of opportunities and must be willing to learn and update themselves in this creative community to put together different aspects of their learning and produce IT applications of good use to society.
Goal of the Department
1. VIT strives to achieve its goal of exhibiting excellence in terms of teaching and also to produce graduates who will be assets to society.
2. To produce graduates who can reach their full potential in designing and developing systems that involve integrating software and hardware devices.
3. To evoke a sense of determination and perseverance to achieve excellence in the students.
4. It aims to provide a holistic approach by conducting various academic programs to increase the students’ skills to meet contemporary demands.
5. VIT also aims to create Large Scale Software Systems and build data/computing infrastructure for an organization.
Course specialization offered at VIT
VIT aims at providing quality education that covers all the necessary disciplines in the field that a computer science engineering student should know. It is indispensable for the graduates to have a deep understanding of the happening domains in information technology. A few of the course specializations that are offered at VIT are:
Theoretical Computer Science
Data Analytics
Software Engineering
Cyber-Physical Systems
Artificial Intelligence
Network and Security
Imaging and Computer Vision
Placement opportunities and Counselling
Placement opportunities offered in the course are the primary focus for any student and the parents who strive to give the best for their child. We at VIT keep this in mind. VIT has one of the spectacular placement cells of all the best colleges for Computer Science Engineering in Chennai.
1. VIT has tie-ups with top-tier IT firms and corporates in the country and out of the country. It has companies walking in for the placement drive at regular intervals, and this offers equal opportunities for all the students.
2. Overall guidance and Counselling for the students in terms of improving their cv and skills to help crack the interview.
3. Complete assistance throughout the placement drive and work with persuasion in training the students to face the placement interview.
Why VIT is the Best engineering college for computer science
1. VIT has one of the best infrastructures and is the best engineering college in Chennai . The labs that they hold are top-notch. These domain-specific labs are sponsored by industry leaders like IBM, Cisco, Sun Microsystems, and Red hat.
2. VIT makes sure to indulge the students in industrial field visits to give them a practical glimpse of the working environment. This gives the students a heads up on what is expected in the real-world work atmosphere.
3. Frequent seminars, workshops, and conferences that are conducted give the students a constant boost of motivation and knowledge to upskills themselves.
4. VIT has one of the noteworthy Ph.D. research programs in the best engineering colleges in Chennai, India . This is one of the added benefits of doing an undergraduate or postgraduate at VIT, as you can move on to pursue Ph.D. and specialize in the field of your choice
5. VIT focuses on practical learning over anything. To ensure students are encouraged to take up projects and perform at the best of their abilities and give their fullest. Thereby students are made industry-ready to set themselves as remarkable computer science engineers.
Computer science engineers are in colossal demand. Anyone who walks out of the best colleges for computer engineering in Chennai with a plethora of skills and the ability to take over this challenging field is sorted to find a good place for themselves in the IT industry.
For admission related queries contact us through admin.chennai@vit.ac.in or + 91 44 3993 1555
Know More Programmes Faculty Lab Facilities Research Facilities Professional Activities Workshop Guest Lectures Conferences Faculty Development Programmes Webinar Seminars ThonEvents Conclave Value Added Programmes Project Expo Extensional Activities Adjunct/Visiting Faculty Corporate Social Responsibility Industrial Connectivity Industrial Visit MoU News Letter Research Conference Publications Journal Publications Book Publications Funded Projects Patents Consultancy Research Group Research Scholars Achievements SCOPE Blog All Schools
