
School of Electrical Engineering (SELECT)
Introduction
Society is driven by energy. The impact of electrical and electronics engineering on the everyday needs of society has drastically increased in the recent decades. VIT Chenna i has been creating the best platform for innovative and aspiring young minds to evolve as engineers and contribute to the technological needs of electrical and electronics engineering domain. VIT strives to render quality education as one of the best place for EEE program in Chennai .
Goal of the Department
Vision
To offer an education in electrical engineering that provides strong fundamental knowledge, skills for employability, cross-disciplinary research and creates leaders who provide technological solutions to societal and industry problems.
Mission
Provide personalized experiential learning in industry sponsored laboratories to prepare students in electrical engineering with strong critical thinking and employability skills.
Foster design thinking, creativity and cross-disciplinary research with highly qualified faculty to create innovators and entrepreneurs in the broad area of electrical engineering.
Collaborate with national and international partners to provide innovative solutions to societal and industry challenges.
VIT – Best College for EEE in Chennai
VIT Chennai’s B.Tech Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) program was accredited by ABET for five years in 2015. It also has the credit of being in top 10 India Ranking and 251-300 World Ranking of the QS World Ranking by subject. VIT imparts education through experiential learning with highly qualified and experienced faculty and state of the art laboratory infrastructure. This makes VIT the best place for Electrical and Electronics Engineering at Chennai.
Opportunities for Electrical and Electronics Engineers
The scope of electrical and electronics engineering is not only restricted to the power and energy sector but is widely blended in almost all fields of engineering. The opportunities are unbound in the diverse fields of engineering like green energy and smart systems, IoT and embedded systems, instrumentation, automation, automotive especially electric vehicles, computing, and data analytics. VIT has the best course structure designed in such a way that it constantly stimulates the student’s innovative thinking skills to enhance their creativity and make them industry-ready.
PEOs
Program Educational Objectives (PEOs)
PEO 1: Graduates will excel in solving industry problems, succeed as engineering practitioners, innovators, and entrepreneurs, or pursue higher education in electrical engineering and related fields.
PEO 2: Graduates will function with social responsibility, team spirit and environmental awareness and develop products that are reliable, cost effective and safe.
PEO 3: Graduates will demonstrate strong soft skills, uphold ethical standards and professional codes of practice, and continually adapt to technological advancements through lifelong learning.
POs
Program Outcomes (POs)
Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
Life-long learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
PSOs
Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
PSO1: Design Electrical and Electronic systems using extensive knowledge of science and engineering.
PSO2: Analyze power electronic circuits and power systems considering technical, economical and environmental constraints.
PSO3: Apply modern intelligent computational tools to the solution of electrical engineering problems and engage in lifelong learning to adapt to technological advancements.
Course specialization offered at VIT
Specializations in any course are of utmost importance to the students to further deepen their knowledge in the subject area of interest.
The electrical and electronics specializations include,
Power systems – Generation Systems, Smart grid, Microgrid.
Power Electronics – Power converters for renewable energy, Electric Vehicles
Electrical Machines – Machine design and electrical drives
Control Engineering– Robotics, Control and Automation
Embedded Systems – Digital and VLSI system design, IoT and Electronics System Design
It also provides opportunity for students to upskill in other engineering domains like Computer Programming, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Data Analytics and Networking.
Placement and Training
Placement opportunities are outstanding which makes VIT  the best college for electronics and electrical engineering in Chennai. VIT has tie-ups with top-tier companies for industrial connectivity and train students to improve their analytical and reasoning skills in addition to evolving as an efficient team player. The electrical engineering department has signed MoUs with companies like LUCAS TVS, kWatt Solutions, Nokia solutions, and CDCE HP Automation and Robotics and Shri Vishnu Magnetics Pvt. Ltd. and so on to provide industrial exposure to students.
Why VIT is the Best College for EEE in Chennai?
Quality teaching and state of the art infrastructure
Placement and internship opportunities are excellent
Industrial exposure through real time consultancy projects
Opportunity to organize and participate in innovative competitions
Research focus by active participation in conference and seminars
International exposure through semester abroad programs
Personality development by co curricular and extracurricular activities
Gain social responsibility and awareness through club activities
VIT offers a holistic approach to electrical and electronic engineering, making it the best college for EEE in Chennai. The students can be assured of quality education and evolve as a skilled engineers with technical expertise.
For admission related queries contact us through admin.chennai@vit.ac.in or +91 44 3993 1555
Know More Programmes Faculty Facilities Research Research Group Funded Projects Publications Patents Research Scholars Professional Activities Workshops Seminars Conferences Faculty Development Programme Extensional Activities Adjunct Faculty International Collaboration Professional Societies Industry Connectivity MoUs Consultancy Notable Alumni * Placement Details * Placement Information E-Newsletter Magazine Innovations in Teaching and Learning NABL
