
Career Development Centre
The Career Development Centre (CDC) works towards creating an environment that encourages students to think beyond the classroom and to develop the necessary skills to excel in their chosen fields. The centre is committed to providing students with personalized career guidance, practical training, and relevant resources that can help them succeed in their careers.
Objectives
1. To create a comprehensive platform that provides students with access to a wide range of career development resources. 2. To provide students with personalized career guidance that can help them identify their strengths, interests, and goals. 3. To organize talks, training sessions, and workshops that help students acquire the necessary skills and knowledge to excel in their chosen fields. 4. To provide continuing support to students throughout their academic journey and beyond, ensuring they are wellprepared for their careers. 5. To offer a soft skills curriculum that helps students develop interpersonal, communication, and leadership skills. 6. To facilitate industrial certifications and training that can help students stand out in the job market.
Director
Dr. Samuel Rajkumar Vellore Institute of Technology
0416 -2202740/2841/2842 placement@vit.ac.in
Awards and Recognitions
Career Guidance and Higher Education
The Support Your Journey Needs
Internships and On-Job Trainings
You will have abundant opportunities to get acquainted with the industry by joining internships & on-job training during your course of studies.
Industry Certification
Industrial certifications can lead to career advancement, higher salaries, increased job security, and can help to ensure that their employees have the necessary skills and knowledge to perform their jobs effectively, leading to increased productivity, efficiency, and customer satisfaction.
Career Counselling
Helps people begin, change, or advance their careers. Includes one-on-one conversations between a counselor and a career seeker, as well as assessments, activities, and projects designed to help career seekers make their strengths high.
Frequently Asked Questions
CDC will notify the upcoming schedule and when it gets confirmed (Test / Interviews) you should not send queries asking for the upcoming schedule
Eligibility criteria & branches are decided by the recruiting company and CDC has no say in this.
There would be no relaxation given on the eligibility criteria. 59.9% is not equal to 60%.
d off your % or CGPA as you would not be allowed to join any company.
If you register for a process, you need to attend the process without fail. Else you will not be allowed to attend any other recruitment process and however you are allowed to withdraw from the selection process after the pre-placement talk (before the test), if you are not satisfied with the terms and conditions by informing the student placement coordinator. The same reason will be applicable for other companies as well.
No. You are considered to be selected, once CDC announces the results.
CDC office will update the CGPA based on the data from COE’s office. You can update other correct academic details on the portal.
The shortlisting is done by the recruiting company on various parameters(not only on CGPA).
No, once the prescribed date and time is over you will not be able to register.
You will be suspended for a minimum of 2 weeks from attending other campus recruitments.
No, you cannot if the registration time and date is over.
You should first pay the CDC registration fee through the academic portal link https://vtop.vit.ac.in/vtop (Vellore)and with the receipt number you may login fill After Payment in vtop, all are asked to must register in the below Link (PAT receipt number mandatory for registration). https://forms.gle/X7UXgsZNigSF9jhD7
You will be eligible for only IT services campus recruitment.(TCS,CTS,etc).Severe disciplinary action will be taken if you do not join dream/super dream companies if selected.you also will have to do one additional academic course if you drop a dream or super dream offer ( Internship / Placements). The academic course to be completed will be communicated by the concerned school Dean. You will have to get in touch with your Dean.
It will be notified on the top of the CDC registration for a particular company.
You will be debarred from the university.
Please see the placement rules as given below.
Eligible for Super Dream Companies placement and internship
Non CS & IT students(UG & PG) will be eligible for Dream – Core placements
CS & IT students (UG & PG) – Core or IT status considered as same status
Eligible for Super Dream Companies placement and internship
Not eligible for Dream-IT or another Dream – Core company placement or Dream internship
Yes. You can, but whichever company announces the results first, you need to take that company’s offer. You will have no choice to select the company.
You should get the authorization letter from concerned School Dean / project coordinator.
On an average, it takes about 2-3 months to get the offer letter.
You will be notified through the Dabb / Neo Pat / mail and you should be present in the placement office (in your campus) within 15 minutes after the shortlist announcement. Please check your emails regularly.
You should come in formals for all the placement, training, company presentations and other events organized by CDC office.
You should carry your resume, passport size photos and all other relevant certificates for the Pre-placement talk (and should come in formals)
You will get attendance for all placement & training activities. CDC will upload the attendance after the activity is over. You will be given an additional one hour attendance after and before the activities gets over.
No. you will have to contact your School/Dean academics.
You will not be eligible to attend the campus recruitments.
No. you will not get a refund.
CDC will try to schedule recruitments without having clash. If there is a clash in timings, then you should follow the CDC’s instructions in attending the process.
You have an option of choosing one company, If you are selected in more than one company.
CDC Visiting hours: (For only those queries which are not in FAQ)
Morning 11.00 a.m. to 12.00 noon Evening 3.00 p.m to 4.00 p.m.


Placements at VIT Chennai are handled through the central placement system shared with VIT Vellore. The highest domestic packages often cross 40 LPA, with international packages sometimes going above 70 LPA depending on the year. The average package typically lies between 6 to 9 LPA. Major recruiters include Microsoft, Amazon, Nvidia, Qualcomm, Deloitte, PwC, TCS, Infosys, Morgan Stanley and others. Internship culture is strong, with many students doing 6-month internships in the final year.